## Suitability of Third-Party Applications
> <small>Hornbill ensures that every integration operates as expected, meeting the specific technical standards required by each API or third-party system we connect with, in accordance to their documentation. However, Hornbill does not officially support or vouch for, or provide any warranties of performance and suitability of any third-party product, or its integrations for any specific purpose. We do not perform any evaluations regarding their appropriateness for certain tasks, services, or the companies offering these services. Our commitment is to the functionality and meeting the technical requirements of these integrations; beyond that, our role concludes. As a customer utilizing third-party services or APIs via our integrations, the responsibility falls to you to assess the data you exchange with these third parties, and to judge their suitability, dependability, and security measures.</small>

## Technical Support for Third-Party Applications
> <small>Hornbill does not have any expertise and cannot provide any kind of support for any third-party products (unless explicitly covered in any extended support agreement with you). Our integrations follow the guidance in the service providers' API documentation.  Our support and technical staff are not trained or authorized to provide technical support or advice about the use, function, or performance of any third-party services or applications. If you choose to use one or more third-party services with integrations we provide as part of your deployment of Hornbill, it is your responsibility to have any required support arrangements with those third-party services. </small>
